both in Berkshire and Occidental
shareholder I was encouraged to see your
investment in the company
but with passing weeks it became evident
that your investment facilitated acts of
Occidental management's ability to avoid
a shareholder vote on the Anadarko
acquisition a very shareholder
unfriendly outcome this deal proved to
be irresponsible and expensive from an
oxy perspective and ultimately very
value destructive for oxy shareholders
in my view it also permanently hurt
Berkshires reputation in the marketplace
please comment on this unfortunate
outcome and tell me why oxy shareholders
and other market observers shouldn't
feel this way well we said right from
the beginning although we didn't
certainly expect to the degree dude
what's happening we said we said
essentially when you buy into an oil a
huge oil production company you know how
it works out is going to depend on the
price of oil to a great extent it it's
not gonna be your geological home runs
or Hormuz or super mistakes or anything
like that it's it's it is a it is a
investment that depends on the price of
oil and you know the I when oil goes to
minus $37 happened the other day for
burger I guess it was the may contract
you know that's off the chart and and if
you if you own oil you should only own
oil if you expect these prices do go up
significantly I don't know whether
they'll go up significantly or not we're
in that we're in the transaction our
commitment was made on a Sunday when the
management of Anadarko favored Chevron
and Chevron had a breakup fee of a
billion dollars and and Occidental
people have been working on it for
several years and it was attractive at
oil prices that then prevailed and it
doesn't work obviously it doesn't work
the $20 a barrel certainly doesn't work
in - 37 dollars a barrel but it doesn't
work at $20 a barrel and everything the
oil companies have been doing whether
it's Exxon or I've sit-down or anybody
else it doesn't work at these oil prices
that's why oil production is going to go
down a lot in the next few years because
it does not be the drill now that's
happened at other times in the past but
the situation is you know you don't know
where you're going to store the
incremental barrel of oil and oil demand
is down dramatically in and for a while
the Russians and the Saudis were trying
to outdo each other and how much oil
they could produce and when you've got
too much in storage it doesn't work its
way off that very fast now you will have
production of oil - down in the United
States significantly it does not pay the
drill in all kinds of formations that it
paid before and it doesn't pay it
doesn't pay to have paid the price that
oil was trading at in the ground a year
or two ago and and to that extent if
you're an oxy shareholder you know you
or any shareholder in any oil producing
company you'll join me in having made a
mistake so far in terms of of where oil
prices went and who knows where they go
in the future
let me follow up with this one then this
one comes in from Aneesh Bal who says is
there a risk of permanent loss of
capital in the oil equity investment
certainly as you know that there's no
question if if oil stays at these prices
there's gonna be a lot of money a whole
lot of money and it will extend to bank
loans and it'll affect the banking
industry to some degree not that doesn't
doesn't destroy everything but it
there's a lot of money that's been
invested that was not invested based on
a $17 or $20 or $25 price for four WTI
west texas intermediate oil and but you
can do the same thing in copper you can
do the same thing in lot and some of the
things we manufacture I mean it
but with commodities it's a particularly
dramatic and you know farmers have been
getting lousy prices but to some extent
the government subsidizing and I'm all
for in it than actually I'm but if
you're an oil producer you take your
chances on future prices unless you want
to sell a lot of futures forward oxy
actually did sell 300,000 barrels a day
of what's in effect that are they they
bought puts but and sold calls in effect
to match it and they were protected on
attend out for a layer of $10 a barrel
on 300,000 barrels a day but you're
really buying when you buy oil you're
betting on oil prices over time and and
over a long time and oil prices there's
there's risk and and the risk is being
realized by oil producers as we speak
there will be if these prices prevail
there will be a lot of bad loans and
energy loans and and the bad debts and
energy loans and if they're bad that's
an energy loans you can imagine what
happens to the equity holders so yes
there's a risk
hey investors sach Guzman here are you
interested in learning more about the
markets and getting the latest financial
well then click right here to subscribe
to our Yahoo Finance YouTube channel get
the latest up-to-the-minute market
analysis big interviews in the world of
finance and information on how to manage
your money every day wherever you are